are you about to give your first speech
but you're really
nervous and you don't want to screw it
up
don't worry you've come to the right
spot because what i'm going to do today
is give you
four of the most common mistakes that
brand new speakers make
and once you know these four things
you'll be able to avoid them
therefore you're not going to look like
a new speaker you're going to look like
someone who is experienced hey everyone
my name is wade patterson
and my channel is all about impactful
communication
and the quest to make you a more
effective communicator
so if you like this content hit that
subscribe button turn notifications on
it would mean a lot to me and it will
help you out in your road
to becoming a very impactful
communicator
back to the four most common mistakes
that brand new speakers make and mistake
number one
is the ums and the ahs and the sows and
the ers and the butts
and all of those words that we call
filler words or
crutch words which take the place of
what could be
silence let me give you an example if i
were to give a speech and pretend i'm a
brand new speaker
i could stand up in front of the group
and say something like this
hey everyone um my name is wade
patterson
and uh i'm i'm um i'm new to public
speaking
and uh yeah
um it's it's something i've uh
i've been thinking of improving on for a
while and
and um there are so many ums and uh in
that speech that it is distracting
to listen to and the difference example
number two would look something like
this
hey everyone my name is wade patterson
i'm new to public speaking but i'm
really excited to take
my skills to the next level in the
second example i didn't use those crutch
words i didn't use
um uh or any of those words
instead i filled it with silence and
this is easier said than
done because as a new speaker it feels
very
awkward to allow silence to happen it
feels very uncomfortable when you're
standing in front of a group
to pause between sentences but the truth
is it actually sounds
so much more natural to the audience
whereas with the um's and the uh that is
what is very distracting
next time you have the chance to see
someone speaking you know that it's one
of their first time speaking
count to yourself the number of times
they use a crutch or
filler word such as um or ah and you'll
be surprised you'll probably be counting
on both hands
many times over because it is so common
so if you're able
to eliminate this you are going to be
considered
a next level speaker right away simply
by doing that i know what you're
thinking how do i actually eliminate
that from my speech
my tip for you is to record yourself
just like i'm doing right now record
a video of yourself speaking then watch
it back
and see how many times you said those
different filler or crutch words so
often we don't even know
that we are saying these words we just
speak and we assume
that we are keeping the silence going
but then we listen back to ourselves
and we realize how many crutch words
we're learning and the first step to
eliminating crutch words
is to acknowledge which ones you are
using the second tip and i have
other videos that i talk about
toastmasters is to consider going to
toastmasters meetings because
in a toastmasters meeting they have an
ah
counter and it's that person's job to
listen for the all the um's and the odds
and to keep track of how many times you
said those filler words in a meeting
and then at the end they give their
report and it's really humbling to hear
wow wade you gave 20 ums throughout your
speech in today's meeting
my thought is wow i had no idea i was
saying it that often
i really need to work to improve on
those particular things so recording
yourself
or potentially attending a toastmasters
meeting and getting advice from peers
those are great ways to ditch the ums
and oz
mistake number two that so many speakers
make
is the lean or the sway or the holding
on to
something while they're talking right
now as i'm doing this video i am
sitting down but often as speakers you
will stand
up and it's incredibly common
for new speakers to be holding on to
something for example if they're
standing
in front of a chair they will hold on to
the back of that chair
or if they're standing at a podium they
will grip
that podium or they will lean against a
wall
or if there's nothing around them to
touch or hold onto
they will sway from foot to foot back
and forth
as they talk and it is really
distracting for the audience
to watch as they go back and forth like
that if you are mindful of this
and you do your best to stand up
straight with your hands at your side
and then bring them up to add the body
language to your speech when necessary
and when you're not using them put them
back down by your side
again you are going to be an amazing
speech people are going to think
you've been speaking for years by doing
these few
small things avoiding these few small
mistakes the third most common mistake i
have seen from new speakers
is distracting the audience with your
notes
now it is very difficult to speak in
front of a group and we have this
feeling that we have to write out
all sorts of notes in case we forget
what we're going to talk about
and it's understandable to have that
fear and to want to write everything out
but you're much better off to practice
without reading all of your notes
because if you're standing in front of a
crowd
and you're simply looking down and
reading your notes word for word as you
talk to them and never lifting your eyes
to make eye contact
that's not an enjoyable experience for
the audience to sit through
it's much more engaging when you're
looking at different people
in the eyes and you're using your hands
rather than holding notes
to utilize body language that is what
makes a great speaker
but so many new speakers they stand and
they hold their notes and they read
exactly what they've written one way to
avoid this is
in your notes or on your cue cards to
simply have
a couple of words that triggers the
category or the
concept that you're going to talk about
rather than all of the words word for
word
another example of this so many people
have given speeches about
themselves growing up and talking about
the hometown they were raised in
that's not something you need to read
word for word you know that story
very well in your own head instead of
writing that out word
for word simply put my childhood in
and then insert the city or the town
that you grew up in
those four words rather than the
paragraphs
verbatim of what your experience was
that's going to trigger you
to tell a particular story and the next
cue card can be the next concept or idea
you want to talk about
so you can practice linking these things
together
but don't write out all of the notes
word for word or if you're going to do
that
okay great but still practice with the
cue cards that give you a few words that
way if you panic if you get stage fright
and you completely forget what you
wanted to talk about
you've got the notes that you can grab
off of the podium and then you can
revert back
worst case scenario you can go and read
those words verbatim
but you'll be surprised that once you
get in the zone it's going to be much
easier
when you're simply talking about
categories of your speech
rather than trying to memorize a whole
page
of text the final mistake that brand new
speakers make
so often is this idea of winging it
everyone loves the idea of the person
who can stand up with no preparation at
all and deliver this amazing
speech but the truth is most of us
myself included we need to practice
and even the people who are great at
winging it i am convinced that if they
practiced a bit more
their speech would be even that much
better as well
practice is so important because it's
going to build your confidence
you're going to remember all of the
things you want to incorporate
into the speech also by adding another
element like recording yourself
or perhaps presenting in front of a
family member or a friend
you are going to get feedback whether
it's yourself watching the video
recording or
the friend giving you direct feedback of
maybe
words that you use that don't need to be
in there like those filler words we
talked about earlier
or maybe you have tendencies you don't
even know maybe your hand goes in your
pocket
maybe you tap your foot as you're
speaking we all have these little
different
things we do without thinking as we
speak and
those people who are watching or us
witnessing it on camera are going to be
able to eliminate those things from our
speech
therefore we are going to come across as
an experienced speaker
that should be your goal as a brand new
speaker to fool everyone make everyone
in the audience think that you have
given many presentations before
and by avoiding those four mistakes
you're gonna be well on your way i hope
you enjoyed this video if you like this
content i do other videos about speaking
and toastmasters and communication
so hit that subscribe button turn your
notifications on
and if you liked this particular video
then like it hit that like button
comment below i'd love to hear from you
anyways i hope you're having a great day
and we'll see you next time